---
title: "Notes: You don't know JS yet: Get Started"
date: 2024-12-12T10:38:43-04:00
draft: true
---

## Chapter 1: What is JavaScript?

- Its main task is to manage the official specification
- There is only one JS, the official standard maintained by TC39 and ECMA.
- the JS defined in the specification and the JS that runs on browser-based JS engines is the same.
- But there are some differences that need to be taken into account. In these cases, TC39 will often backtrack and simply choose to adjust the specification to the reality of the web.
- JavaScript is definitely a multi-paradigm language.
- JavaScript is preserving backwards compatibility.
- Once a change is in JS, it can't be removed because it might break programs, even if we'd really like to remove it!

- Use Babel if you want to translate the code to an older version.

### **Filling the Gaps**

- Missing API method that was only recently added, the most common solution is to provide a definition for that missing API method that stands in and acts as if the older environment had already had it natively defined. This pattern is called a polyfill (aka “shim”).

- Transpilers like Babel typically detect which polyfills your code needs and provide them automatically for you. But occasionally you may need to include/define them explicitly.

**Note:** Recomienda a los developers usar la ultima version de JS para que el codigo sea mas limpio y se pueda transmitir de fomra clara las ideas. 

**What's in an Interpretation?**
“interpreted” languages and “scripting” languages have been looked down on as inferior compared to their compiled counterparts.

The reasons for this acrimony are numerous, including the perception that there is a lack of performance optimization, as well as dislike of certain language characteristics, such as scripting languages generally using dynamic typing instead of the “more mature” statically typed languages.

- **Interpreted languages**, codigo ejecutado linea por linea
- **Compiled languages**, any error would be caught during the parsing phase, before any execution has begun, and none of the program would run


`/* Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) */`

` /* JS es un lenguaje compilado*/`

### **Web Assembly (WASM)**

 - WASM is a representation format more akin to Assembly (hence, its name) that can be processed by a JS engine by skipping the parsing/compilation that the JS engine normally does. The parsing/compilation of a WASM-targeted program happen ahead of time (AOT); what’s distributed is a  binary-packed program ready for the JS engine to execute with very minimal processing.
 - An initial motivation for WASM was clearly the potential performance improvements.
 - WASM is additionally motivated by the desire to bring more parity for non-JS languages to the web platform.
 - WASM offers the potential for such a Go program to be converted to a form the JS engine can understand, without needing a threads feature in the JS language itself.
 - That means JS feature development can be judged (by TC39) without being skewed by interests/demands in other language ecosystems, while still letting those languages have a viable path onto the web.
 - WASM is evolving to become a cross-platform virtual machine (VM) of sorts, where programs can be compiled once and run in a variety of different system environments.
 - WASM isn’t only for the web, and WASM also isn’t JS

 **Note:** WASM lets other languages run in the JS engine

### Strictly Speaking

 - Why strict mode? because it is a guide to the best way to do things so that the JS engine has the best chance of optimizing and efficiently running the code.
 - It’s vastly better to simply turn strict mode on for the entire file/program.
 - When JS made strict mode the default? Due to compatibility, the answer is NO.
 - Virtually all transpiled code ends up in strict mode even if the original source code isn’t written as such.

### Defined

- JS is an implementation of the ECMAScript standard (version ES2019 as of this writing), which is guided by the TC39 committee and hosted by ECMA. It runs in browsers and other JS environments such as Node.js.

- JS is a multi-paradigm language, meaning the syntax and capabilities allow a developer to mix and match (and bend and reshape!) concepts from various major paradigms, such as procedural, object-oriented (OO/classes), and functional (FP).

- JS is a compiled language, meaning the tools (including the JS engine) process and verify a program (reporting any errors!) before it executes.

